
                    Specification For The Operation Of APNS 

                  Draft 1 , 27th June 1991     (Version 1.10)
                  Draft 2 , 26th June 1992     (Version 2.02)
                  Draft 2a, 10th November 1992 (Version 2.15) 

Definitions:

1) SITE a shop, franchise or office using a copy of APNS [Waiting]
2) OFFICE a shop, franchise or office using a copy of APNS [Polling]

Reason for new specification:

The original method of file-identification (that of using the file
extension as the origin / destination site number) is not sufficient
for the full system envisaged, in which sites may be polled by several
different offices, and files transmitted through the system from any
site to any other site.

New Specification:

Files will be named according to the following convention;

<ORIG><DEST>.<TYP>

Thus all files in send and receive directories will have an eight
character filename and a three character extension. Under the new
specification all transmitted files should be archived with the LHA
utility version 2.13 or above (as this generates smaller files and is
generally faster than version 1.13c used previously).

| APNS version 2.10 and higher depends on LHA version 2, as it
| directly examines .LZH files when it processes routed files in
| the \APNS\RECV directory. 
|
| The APFILE utility also calls LHA directly from the program.

The ORIGin and DESTination are both examples of the SITE CODE. The
Site Code is a four character unique identifier that forms the
backbone of the new specification.

The Site Code is actually a 4 digit base 36 number. Base 36 is a
numbering system like hexadecimal but uses the range 0 to 9 and A to Z
(ie basically the same range of characters permitted in MSDOS file
names).

With four digits the largest number we can store is 1,679,615. Coding
the site's number within region, region number within country and
country code, we can generate unique codes for the system based on 255
possible sites per region, 127 regions per country and a total of 48
countries.

This coding utilises 95% of the possible values (0000 to YEWV), thus
leaving all codes Z000 to ZZZZ for internal system use and further
expansion.

| Currently the system uses site codes generated ad-hoc, and that do
| not conform to the above structure. This is because no regional
| structure exists in the shop sites that is a usable basis for
| the system.

| For example, Rueil has a site code of 0070 which is in fact the internal
| Midas site designation. French head ofice has been given the site code
| 0001 for obvious reasons, and it is intended to follow on with using
| the GE2 country codes so the UK head office (Garage Expert) will be site
| 0002, Spain 0003, Austria 0004, and Belgium 0005.

| The best compromise is to use the country code as the first digit of
| the site code. So that Midas France is 1000, Rueil is 1070, MicroFor
| is site 2000, Midas Belgium is 5000, Belgielei is 5001 etc.

The TYPe of the file is a three letter code signifying the contents of
the file. The first two characters should be unique as the third may
be used to 'stack' incoming files with the same name (eg if an
incoming file 1FBC1FA4.STK already exists in the receiver's RECV
directory, the file name will be changed to 1FBC1FA4.ST0, .ST1 etc).

Proposed file types are STK (stock updates), SAL (sales information),
PUR (purchase information), EML (electronic mail).

Obviously these will be used by Garage Expert and are not processed by
Apns at all. Three internal file types reserved by Apns are TRN (for
files in transit), INT for internationally routed files and NUP (for
nodelist updates, see below).

| Only the .TRN extension is currently used, to indicate any routed
| data packets.

Obviously site codes are not easily readable. The Apns system will be
supplemented with an Address utility which is used for creating and
inspecting site codes.

If Garage Expert wants a sales report sending to the regional office,
the program should call the Address utility as follows;

ADDRESS <source file> [<receiver> <file type>] [<encryption key>]

Eg: ADDRESS 17691sal.rep grenoble SAL

The Address utility will calculate the receiver's site code and call
LHA to create a packed file in the SEND directory, the file
extension will be as specified by Garage Expert (ie SAL for sales
report).

If the destination is a site other than the regional office then the
Address utility will create a new LHA'ed file addressed to the
regional office. This file will contain the file intended for the
eventual destination site, but will have the extension .TRN, to
indicate to the receiver that it is in transit.

| The above process is now handled by APFILE. The ADDRESS program
| was never actually written.

At the regional site the transit file is unpacked so the eventual
destination can be ascertained. If the destination is a site in the
current region, the file is moved into the SEND directory, otherwise
it is forwarded to the head office in a similar manner to the above.

| APNS.EXE has internal routines to perform routing in this manner.

If an encryption key is specified, then the file is encrypted (in the
same manner as the standalone ENCRYPT program), LHA itself does not
have its own encryption system. This feature is for sensitive files
routed through the network.

The other syntax of Address will be: ADDRESS <source file>

This will produce a display similar to the following;

File 1FBC1FA4.SAL is from Annemasse, France. 2:3/200
                     to   Grenoble, France. 2:3/156

In both of its functions, the Address utility looks up the textual
name of a site (Annemasse, Reuil, Grenoble etc) in the NODELIST.

The Nodelist is a list of all sites on the network. For size reasons
the nodelist at each site will only deal with one country.
International routing of files is accomplished by the head-offices
only.

The Nodelist contains the Site Code, site name, and telephone number
of each site.
